# **Hospital Gowns Market Share, Growth, Trends and Forecast 2024-2032**

IMARC Group\'s report titled \"**Hospital Gowns Market Report by Type
(Surgical Gowns, Non-Surgical Gowns, Patient Gowns), Risk Type (Minimal,
Low, Moderate, High), Usability (Disposable, Reusable), and Region
2024-2032\",** The global [hospital gowns market
size](https://www.imarcgroup.com/hospital-gowns-market) reached US\$ 4.7
Billion in 2023. Looking forward, IMARC Group expects the market to
reach US\$ 11.9 Billion by 2032, exhibiting a growth rate (CAGR) of
10.86% during 2024-2032.

**Grab a sample PDF of this
report: **<https://www.imarcgroup.com/hospital-gowns-market/requestsample>

**Factors Affecting the Growth of the Hospital Gowns Industry:**

**Changing Healthcare Landscape and Evolving Needs:**

The healthcare landscape has undergone significant changes, triggering a
shift in the requirements for hospital gowns. As patient-centered care
gains prominence, there\'s a growing emphasis on ensuring comfort,
dignity, and patient safety. This has led to a demand for hospital gowns
that are not only functional but also designed to uphold patient modesty
and autonomy during medical procedures. Furthermore, the increasing
prevalence of antimicrobial-resistant infections has necessitated the
integration of advanced fabric technologies and designs that prioritize
infection control without compromising patient comfort. Additionally,
the rise of outpatient care and telehealth services has created a demand
for hospital gowns that are versatile enough to cater to various care
settings, including home care and virtual consultations. Consequently,
the evolving needs within the healthcare landscape are propelling the
growth of the hospital gowns industry as manufacturers respond to these
changing demands.

**Technological Advancements and Sustainability:**

Technological advancements and sustainability efforts play a crucial
role in influencing the growth of the hospital gowns industry.
Innovations such as the use of sustainable and eco-friendly materials,
as well as the development of reusable and recyclable hospital gowns,
are becoming key focal points for industry growth. These advancements
are driven by a collective effort to reduce the environmental impact of
healthcare operations while simultaneously addressing the need for
cost-effective solutions. Moreover, the integration of advanced fabric
technologies, such as moisture-wicking materials and breathable fabrics,
not only enhances patient comfort but also contributes to infection
prevention. Furthermore, the utilization of smart textiles and wearable
sensor technologies is fostering the development of intelligent hospital
gowns that can monitor patient vital signs and enhance overall care
delivery. The convergence of technological advancements and
sustainability initiatives is reshaping the hospital gowns industry and
driving innovation in materials, designs, and functionalities.

**Economic Considerations and Market Dynamics:**

Economic factors and market dynamics significantly shape the growth of
the hospital gowns industry. As healthcare providers continue to
navigate cost constraints, there is a burgeoning interest in
cost-effective solutions that offer long-term value. This has led to a
growing preference for durable, high-quality hospital gowns with
extended lifespan and ease of maintenance, thereby reducing the need for
frequent replacements. Additionally, the influence of market dynamics,
including the consolidation of healthcare facilities and the global
expansion of healthcare services, has fueled the demand for
standardized, versatile hospital gowns that can cater to diverse patient
populations and care settings. Furthermore, the impact of regulatory
changes and compliance requirements related to healthcare-associated
infections and patient safety has prompted healthcare organizations to
seek infection-resistant gowns that meet stringent industry standards.
The interplay of economic considerations and market dynamics underscores
the need for hospital gowns that strike a balance between
cost-efficiency, quality, and compliance, thereby shaping the trajectory
of industry growth.

**Leading Companies Operating in the Global Hospital Gowns Industry:**

-   3M Company

-   Ameripride Services Inc. (Aramark)

-   Angelica Corporation

-   Cardinal Health Inc.

-   Dynarex Corporation

-   Hartmann AG

-   Kimberly-Clark Health Care

-   Lohmann & Rauscher

-   Medline Industries Inc.

-   Priontex

-   Stryker Corporation

-   Standard Textile Co. Inc.

**Hospital Gowns Market Report Segmentation:**

**Breakup by Type:**

-   Surgical Gowns

-   Non-Surgical Gowns

-   Patient Gowns

Surgical gowns, being crucial for preventing the transfer of
microorganisms and reducing the risk of surgical site infections,
represented the largest segment due to their diverse styles, lengths,
and materials catering to various surgical specialties.

**Breakup by Risk Type:**

-   Minimal

-   Low

-   Moderate

-   High

High-risk hospital gowns, designed for optimal protection in sterile
environments and for patients requiring specialized care, accounted for
the largest market share due to the paramount concern for infection
control and the need for gowns offering the highest level of protection.

**Breakup by Usability:**

-   Disposable

-   Reusable

Disposable gowns, tailored for single-use to minimize
cross-contamination and infection spread, accounted for the largest
market share due to their emphasis on infection control, streamlined
processes, and hypoallergenic materials, accelerating product adoption.

**Regional Insights:**

-   North America: (United States, Canada)

-   Asia Pacific: (China, Japan, India, South Korea, Australia,
    Indonesia, Others)

-   Europe: (Germany, France, United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, Russia,
    Others)

-   Latin America: (Brazil, Mexico, Others)

-   Middle East and Africa

North America accounted for the largest market share due to its advanced
healthcare infrastructure, high volume of medical procedures, and
adherence to strict infection control standards, driving substantial
demand for hospital gowns in the region.

**Global Hospital Gowns Market Trends:**

The global hospital gowns market is anticipated to witness several key
trends. These may include a growing emphasis on sustainable and
eco-friendly gown materials to reduce the environmental impact of
healthcare operations. Additionally, there could be a trend towards the
integration of advanced infection-resistant technologies and ergonomic
designs to enhance patient comfort and safety. Moreover, the market may
see increased adoption of specialized gowns for high-risk procedures,
catering to the demand for optimal protection against contamination.
Furthermore, there might be a focus on innovative gown disposal systems
to streamline processes, reduce turnaround time, and further enhance
infection control measures.

**Note: If you need specific information that is not currently within
the scope of the report, we will provide it to you as a part of the
customization.**

**About Us:**

IMARC Group is a leading market research company that offers management
strategy and market research worldwide. We partner with clients in all
sectors and regions to identify their highest-value opportunities,
address their most critical challenges, and transform their businesses.

IMARCs information products include major market, scientific, economic
and technological developments for business leaders in pharmaceutical,
industrial, and high technology organizations. Market forecasts and
industry analysis for biotechnology, advanced materials,
pharmaceuticals, food and beverage, travel and tourism, nanotechnology
and novel processing methods are at the top of the companys expertise.

Our offerings include comprehensive market intelligence in the form of
research reports, production cost reports, feasibility studies, and
consulting services. Our team, which includes experienced researchers
and analysts from various industries, is dedicated to providing
high-quality data and insights to our clientele, ranging from small and
medium businesses to Fortune 1000 corporations.

**Contact Us:**

IMARC Group

134 N 4th St. Brooklyn, NY 11249, USA

Email: sales@imarcgroup.com

Tel No:(D) +91 120 433 0800

United States: +1-631-791-1145 \| United Kingdom: +44-753-713-2163
